Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to create an event listener for the enter key and an
event listener for the to do add button.
All right, so first things first, let's go ahead and let's create the comment, adding a two dash
do.
To adding it to do to the last, adding it to do to the last, when when the enter key is pressed.
All right, so we are going to say document.
We are going to add this event, Lessner, on the document itself.
So whenever the user is wherever inside the document and presses the turkey, that item should be added
to the list.
And we are going to add event listener and we are going to listen for a key up.
So when we have a key press and when we have we have a key up, the key up.
We have talked about it a lot and I'm not going to discuss it any more and I'm not going to discuss
it once more.
That's better verb.
All right.
And we are going to call a function call to do right.
The reason that I'm not specifically specifying the function inside this event, listener, is because
the same function is going to be implemented for our plus sign or plus button as well, or add to do
button as well.
So if I, if I just go ahead and define the function within this event listener, I would have to do
it twice.
But if I just go ahead and create the function standalone, I can call it to ICE, which is better,
which is a better way and which is a best practice.
So this is adding a to do to the list when the key is pressed.
And I'm going to grab this and I'm going to say adding it to due to the last when the plus when the
plus icon is clicked.
All right.
So we are going to grab that.
It has we have we have already selected it inside our JavaScript.
It is to do add button.
This is the Circle Plus Circle and we're going to add event listener.
And what is different this time?
The event is going to be a simple click and we're going to run the same function because the functionality
is going to be the same for both of the events, whether it is the enter or it is the click.
So now it is time to create that function.
So this play to do function, I'm going to say function display to do all right.
And we are going to grab our event object.
Why don't we just go ahead and write the full name?
I mean, you should do it justice, right?
So we are going to say a display to do and we are going to grab our event object now in here.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to control the flow of document.
Now, there might be like a lot of places that the user might be clicking, but we are only looking
for two places.
The first, we are looking for two events to be more accurate.
The first event is whenever the key is pressed.
The second event is whenever the ad to do button is clicked.
We don't want to do anything else when the user does anything else.
We just want to apply our code, control the flow of that code when the aforementioned aforementioned
two events were fired.
So we are going to say if.
F idot key code, so the key code for the enter key is equal to 13 f idot key code event, that key
code equals 13.
So this is whenever the key, which is whenever this key up happens on the enter key, we don't care
of the key up happens on the shift or control or function or any other key for that matter.
We only care f if the event has happened on the enter key and the key has a code of 13, if that is
the condition or so, this is a logical or operator which we have not used in our projects, but this
is the first time that we use them.
But we have studied it.
We know how it works.
So or event dot target.
So even that target is going to give us is going to tell us where the user has clicked.
We say that when the event the target has a class of.
Whenever you want to access the class of an element inside JavaScript, you just say class list.
If the class has a value which is equal to the following, I'm just going to copy it.
And I'm going to stay right here, OK, then we want to run a certain code, so let's go over this condition
one more time.
If the event happens on a key code, which equals to 13, meaning that it is the entire key or the event
target has a class of has as a value for the class, which equals to this we want to do something right.
So this is the logical or operator.
It it it has to it returns true with once with at least one side of this, this expression is true.
It is going to return.
True.
And when it returns true, this statement is going to run the following code.
So what is it that we want to do?
The first thing that we need to do is we need to check checking whether the input field is not empty.
So when it is not until we don't want to do anything, but when it is when it is empty, we don't want
to do anything.
But when it is not empty, it means that the user has written something there.
We want to do something.
So for that, I'm just going to control the flow one more time.
We are going to say to do so f to do is true.
Where does this to do come from?
It comes from here.
All right.
When that to do is true, what do we want to do?
And you might ask, OK, this to do has nothing in common with this function.
Right.
So this is a standalone function and this is another standalone function.
There is no link between them.
So this to do can come from there.
So if to do is true, we are going to call our ad to do a function which we have created right here.
Now, this is the beautiful part.
We have created an ad to do function and we are going to call it as a callback function inside the display
to do, which is going to run whenever.
Either the turkey is pressed or the plus sign is correct, right.
So what are the arguments that we're going to pass?
The first one is going to be to do then we're going to pass I.D. for the complete.
We are going to say false for the trash.
We are going to say false as well.
Why?
Initially, when the user enters something we do not want to check it completed.
If we check it completed, it means that before even writing that the user says, OK, I have not even
written it.
And you say I've completed it already.
That is not going to be true.
And the same thing goes for trash.
The user is just in the is just in the process of writing it.
So how could the user be completing it already?
How the user has completed it already?
Very difficult tenses are right, but that's why initially they are going to be set to false.
So that function is called here.
The next thing that I want to do here is whenever we are this.
Whenever the user writes something here, where do we want to push it to?
We want to push it to our to do container, which is this array.
Right.
And we know why, because we want to show their inside our local stories as well.
So we are going to say to do container dot, we're going to use our push method.
Right.
And what is it that we want to push?
It is simply going to be an object.
So each of the items is going to be one object.
The object is going to have the following properties.
So the name property is going to have a value of to do the I.D. property is going to have a value of
ID, that Dunn is going to have a value of false.
Initially, these are all initial values and the trash.
That's going to have a value of phos, so initially this is how it is going to be and so we are going
to call our to do button and whatever is the result, we are going to push it to this to do container.
And each time we do that, we grab our IDE and we increment it by one.
Right.
So I think we should be good to go.
Let's go.
Hey, let's check out our changes.
So I'm just going to say dog walking, let's hit enter.
It doesn't work.
Let's let's click on this.
Plus sign doesn't work.
So now let's go ahead and let's see what is wrong here.
All right, so let's go let's open up our console, so.
Issue detected and let's do this, let's say one, two, three, and it says uncut reference error to
do is not defined at our baseline 54.
So this is line 54 to do is not defined oh, we should define this to do.
All right.
So inside this if statement, what are we going to do in here is I'm going to create a constant because
whatever the to do as now we know the to do right.
The to do comes from this from this element, from this dynamic element.
But if we take a look at it, we have not actually specified where the to do grabs its value.
Where are the content for the to do comes.
So in here it's a simple parameter.
We have passed the parameter here and we have called that parameter with an argument where the to do
define the to do is not actually defined anywhere.
So we're going to say const to do, we are going to set it now before even setting it.
I'm just going to go ahead and say cancel that log and we're going to grab our input now because the
the input is where the text for the or value for the to do comes from.
So let's say let's come here, I'm just going to write one, two, three.
This is our input.
So this is the input.
Right.
So what do I want to grab?
I want to grab the value from this input.
Right.
So if I say input, not value, what is the input?
That value is going to give us the text content of this input.
So if I write walking and hit enter, we are going to see that it says walking.
It is going to give us exactly the text that the user has typed in here, and that's exactly what we
want.
So I'm going to cut it from here and I'm going to create a constant and I'm going to set it to to do
and we are going to say that the constant have to do has a value of input that value.
And we know what that is.
So that's right.
Mm hmm.
Watching Sunset, let's click on this plus site.
We can see that this has been added.
But if I just change it to sunrise and hit enter, we can see it watching sunset and watching sunrise.
They have been added successfully.
And the good thing is initially they are not checked, completed or they are not trashed.
But there is one tiny problem here that whenever the user hits enter or plus sign, this input should
clear automatically.
So we should not be able to see that.
But if we just go ahead and click, we can see multiple sunrises.
So at the end.
At the end, what I'm going to do is inside our statement, of course, this is inside the F statement,
we are going to grab our input.
That value, after everything has run, we are going to set it to a set of empty string, to an empty
string.
Why do I keep saying set of empty strings?
So let's add a walking once more.
We can see that it has added and it has removed it from here.
That's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.